Solar panels work by allowing light into the solar cells. The more light that hits a panel, the more power it will generate. Due to the upwards angle of solar panels, they are more prone to bird droppings and a build-up of general dust and dirt that does not wash off with just rain. This reduces the amount of light hitting the panel and reduces its output. As the projected energy figures claimed by solar panel manufacturers and installers are based on the optimum performance of clean solar panels, this build-up of dirt can adversely affect the panel’s ability to meet those projections. The efficiency of the solar panels generating power reduces if you don’t frequently clean the panels. So it is very much important to clean the solar panels regularly. 

But then cleaning the solar panels manually is fine when it is within your house i.e. for domestic purpose or with in a small setup having not more than 20 installations. But it is really tedious when you have to clean an entire solar panel farm. So we have come up with an idea of automated solar panel cleaner. The idea is basically creating a bot which would be integrated with UDM sensor and smart dust sensor. Smart dust sensor is used to detect the presence of dust. The UDM sensor would be placed in the apex of the bot. When the bot is moving and suddenly the panel comes to an end the UDM sensor would detect it as the distance measured from the ground would be more else the sensor would measure it from the panel which would be comparatively less and thus bot won’t take a turn till it gets an specific output. 
 
A brush would be placed at the bottom that can be used to clean the panel. Thus, solar panel cleaners are indeed very important in today’s era to increase the efficiency and reduce manual work and also to increase the speed of the cleaning process. 
